1)Explain High Availabilty of Name node
Ans-A pair of active-standby name nodes is the basis of high availabilty.
On failure of 1 node(active node), the standby takes its place without interruption.
The active node and standby node take the responsibilty of handling edit-logs alternatively.
When any namespace modification is performed by the Active node, it modifies the edit log file stored in the shared directory.
The Standby node is constantly watching this directory for edits, and as it sees the edits, it applies them to its own namespace. 
In the event of a failover, the Standby will ensure that it has read all of the edits from the shared storage before promoting itself to the Active state. 
This ensures that the namespace state is fully synchronized before a failover occurs.
In HDFS High Availability,cluster is available even if all namenodes go down.


2)CheckPointing and how it is useful:
The namenode stores data in the form of metadata.
When any operation takes place in HDFS, the directory structure gets modified
These modifications are stored in the memory as well as in the edits files (edits
files are stored on the hard disk)
If the existing fsimage file gets merged with edits, we’ll get an updated fsimage
file
This process is called “checkpointing” and is carried out by the Secondary
NameNode. It takes the fsimage and edits files from the NameNode and returns
updated fsimage file after merging
All activities are stored in the edit logs.
It is kept in the memory harddisk and RAM but multiple versions are saved on the disk.
fsimage contains the HDFS metadata and edits contain the changes in the
HDFS metadata. To get the exact view of the HDFS structure, both must be
merged. At the time when a NameNode restarts, it merges both of them, as it
needs to store this information in memory. Since edits can become very large
with time, a NameNode’s startup time can become very lengthy. So, it is good to
have them merged periodically.
However clusters come down one's in every 24 hrs.
This is a long time for the FSImage to be updated.
The explicit merging of editlogs into FSImage is called checkpoint.
This is done with a span of 1-2 hrs.

3)HDFS federation
NameNode is a single point of failure.
A secondary NameNode cannot act as a NameNode, as it should be on a high-end machine.
In the HDFS Federation, we use multiple NameNodes, each storing the fsimage,
edits.
In the HDFS Federation, there are multiple NameNodes, each storing the metadata.
Blocks for files belonging to a namespace is called a block pool.
If one NameNode fails, a namespace volume managed by an other namenode is still
accessible. So the entire cluster doesn’t become inaccessible.


4)Mandatory configuration files
On installing the hadoop tar file with default settings a standalone mode is obtained.
The configuration files are .xml file which give the properties defined by apache.
The four files that need to be configured explicitly are-
1)Core-site.xml
2)HDFS-site.xml
3)YARN-site.xml
4)xml
We can override the default properties by configuring the above .xml files.
For example , the default replication factor(3) can be configured using hdfs-site.xml
The core-site.xml includes-
Some of the important properties are:

Configuring the name node address
Configuring the rack awareness factor
Selecting the type of security
